<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Architectural Engineering (Omaha) 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="architectural-engineering-omaha-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Architectural Engineering (Omaha)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Architectural Engineering (Omaha)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 130</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Garrett Gassman</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</p>
<p class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Jay Puckett</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator:</span> Ece Erdogmus</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span>  Erdogmus, Goedert, Morcous, Wang, Waters</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Alahmad, Krause, Lau, Li, Norton, Ryherd, Schwer, Tiller</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Alsaleem, Lau, Yu, Yuill</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Eble-Hankins</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Industry Liaison: Clarence Waters</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Industry Fellows:</span> Feldman, Manriquez, Shackelford</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://engineering.unl.edu/durhamschool/architectural-engineering/</p>
<p class="basic-text">The architectural engineering (BSAE) undergraduate program is a four-year program requiring 130 credit hours. A one-year Master of Architectural Engineering (MAE) program of 36 credits is also offered. The MAE degree is accredited by ABET and almost all of our BSAE graduates continue to complete the MAE degree.<br /><br />The following are the BSAE/MAE program educational objectives (PEOs):<br />• Professional Accomplishment: The AE program will prepare graduates to become licensed professional engineers a few years after graduation.<br />• Career Accomplishment: The AE program will prepare graduates to contribute to society by working in an occupation related to the built environment a few years after graduation.<br /><br />Architectural engineering (AE) is the engineering design of buildings. Students have the option to specialize in either the design of:<br />• building structural systems, <br />• building mechanical systems and acoustics, or <br />• building lighting and electrical systems.<br /><br />The first three years are common to all three fields of specialization, and include the math and science courses common to all engineering programs. Students take an introductory course in AE in their first semester where the students learn about the materials and systems that comprise a building, visit a construction site, and interact with their industry mentors. It provides a preview of the work they can expect to perform after graduation. This introductory course helps the student to decide if AE is the career path he/she wishes to pursue. <br /><br />In the second semester, the AE student begins the first of a four-course sequence of courses in AE Design and Simulation Studio. These courses familiarize the engineering student with building information technology (BIM), building systems, and how they support the design process of architects. The AE degree is keenly focused on integrating engineering concepts with architectural features to deliver esthetic and high performing buildings. Exposure to construction is an important part of the AE student’s education. It develops creativity and constructability where AE graduates enjoy a special ability to work effectively with all professionals on the design and construction team.<br /><br />The AE program develops breadth and depth by requiring a good understanding of all the systems that comprise a building while also providing a specialized education in one of the areas listed above. Breadth is provided in the fifth and sixth semesters, where all students take courses in each of the three areas of specialization. Depth is provided in the seventh and eighth semesters where courses are taken primarily in one of the three specialization tracks.<br />A one-year Master of Architectural Engineering degree follows the four-year undergraduate program. This fifth year continues the specialized education in each of the three option areas, and provides the professional practice topics that Architectural Engineers need later in their careers.<br /><br />The MAE year features a major interdisciplinary design project. The project requires the student to practice the design skills and understanding of building systems previously developed. Student teams complete a significant building design in a manner that closely simulates professional practice. Industry and faculty members serve as consultants to the students. Typically, students enter this design into the national Architectural Engineering Institute competition. Traditionally, our students do very well at this competition.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Career Opportunities<br /><br />Architectural engineering graduates normally enter the building design industry and become registered professional engineers. There are about 20 accredited Architectural Engineering programs in the country, so there is a large unfulfilled demand for engineers educated in building design. In Nebraska, the home of several large Architectural and Engineering design firms this is especially true.<br /><br />Architectural engineering is accredited by the EAC-ABET, Inc.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must complete at least 43 credit hours in the AE program before applying for professional admission to the degree program in AE. Transfer students must have all transfer hours accepted before applying for professional admission. The students must have a minimum of 3.0 GPA over a pre-determined set of 43 credit hour freshman and sophomore level courses to be professionally admitted to the AE program and continue to take 300-level AE courses. A spreadsheet for calculation of AE professional admittance GPA is provided on the AE website. The number admitted students will depend on the availability of space, faculty, and other academic resources. Students are not permitted to register for more than 61 credit hours of courses listed in the AE curriculum until they have been accepted into the degree program in AE.<br /><br /></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">All course numbers reflect the University of Nebraska at Omaha catalog system, as this program is only completed on the Omaha campus.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 1010 Introduction to Architectural Engineering 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CMST 1110 Public Speaking Fundamentals 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 1950 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 1180 General Chemistry I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 1184 General Chemistry I Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 1100 Design Thinking 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 2250 Construction Graphics &amp; Design Process 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 1960 Calculus II 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 2110 General Physics 1 - Calculus Level 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 1154 General Physics Laboratory I 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 1110 Design Making 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 17</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MENG 2000 Engineering Thermodynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIST 1400 Introduction to Computer Programming 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 1970 Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 2120 General Physics–Calculus Level 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 1164 General Physics Laboratory II 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MENG 2230 Engineering Statics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Fourth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 2110 Elements of Electrical Engineering 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 2400 Building Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MENG 3730 Engineering Dynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 2350 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 3070 Mechanics of Materials Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MENG 3250 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Fifth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 3200 Lighting I: Fundamentals for Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 3300 Building Acoustics Fundamentals 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 310/MENG 3100 Fluid Mechanics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 319 Hydraulics Laboratory 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 341 Introduction to Structural Engineering 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 3980* Technical Writing Across the Disciplines 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 17</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">*ENGR 3000 is an accepted equivalent for ENGL 3980</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Sixth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 3220 Electrical Systems for Buildings I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 3100 HVAC Fundamentals 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 441 Steel Design I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MENG 4200/MENG 8206 Heat Transfer 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">STAT 3800/STAT 8805 Applied Engineering Probability &amp; Statistics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective* 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">*Satifies ACE SLO 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-underline">All Options</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ART 3770* History of Architecture to 1850 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 2060 Engineering Economics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 440/CIVE 840 Reinforced Concrete Design I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 9</p>

<p>*Satisfies ACE SLO 5</p>
<p>*AE 3770 is an accepted substitute for ART 3770</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-underline">Lighting and Electrical Options</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 4200/AE 8206 Lighting II: Theory, Design &amp; Application 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 4120 Building Energy II: Primary &amp; Secondary Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 1010* Introduction to Psychology I 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">*Satisfies ACE SLO 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-underline">Mechanical and Acoustics Options</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 4120 Building Energy II: Primary &amp; Secondary Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective* 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">General Elective** 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">*Satifies ACE SLO 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">**Should be approved by your advisor</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-underline">Structural Option</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 443 Structural Analysis 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective* 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">General Elective** 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">*Satifies ACE SLO 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">**Should be approved by your advisor</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-underline">All Options</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ART 3780* History of Architecture Since 1850 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">*Satisfies ACE SLO 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-underline">Lighting and Electrical Options</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 4250 Lighting Design 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 4210 Sensation &amp; Perception 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-underline">Mechanical and Acoustics Options</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 4150 HVAC Design 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AE 4300/AE 8306 Advanced Noise Control 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-underline">Structural Option</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 334 Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 444/CIVE 844 Structural Design &amp; Planning 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total: 7</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because of rapid technical developments, the AE curriculum is continually reviewed and upgraded. Currently enrolled students are expected to modify their programs to take advantage of such revisions. Students who do not maintain continuous progress toward the degree through enrollment in applicable course work will be considered as new students upon re-entering the program and will be subject to the requirements of the undergraduate catalog current at the time of their re-entry.</p>
<p class="basic-text">AE students must pass any course offered by the AE program (those with an AE or CIVE prefix) with a grade of “C-” or higher to obtain credit toward graduation for that course. All courses that are prerequisites for AE or CE courses must be passed with a grade of “C-” or higher to obtain entry into the subsequent course.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The AE program follows the UNL ACE general education requirements. Because of the specific needs of the program, most of these courses are specified in the curriculum.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Please contact Melissa Hoffman at melissa.hoffman@unl.edu or 402-554-4482, if you are interested in more information about this program.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>