<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Construction Management 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="construction-management-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Construction Management</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Construction Management</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Construction Management</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Garrett Gassman (Omaha), Kevin Sueper (Lincoln)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Jay Puckett</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator:</span> Kevin Grosskopf</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Goedert, Grosskopf</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bernstein, Bonsell, Fischer, Jensen, Schwer, Shen, Stentz, Wentz</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Ahn, Esmaeili, Woldesenbet</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Bowen</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Industry Fellow:</span> Cuddigan</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Industry Relations:</span> Bernstein</p>
<p class="basic-text">Construction Management (CNST) is a complete undergraduate degree program available to students within The Charles W. Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction, located at Nebraska Hall on the City Campus in Lincoln, and at the Peter Kiewit Institute (PKI) on the Scott Campus in Omaha. Construction is one of the largest and most diversified industries in the country, accounting for approximately 4 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP). The key professional in this vast enterprise is the “constructor,” a term given to leaders and managers in the construction industry who are responsible for planning, scheduling and building the projects designed by architects and engineers. These highly specialized efforts are indispensable in meeting the country’s growing need for new structures, infrastructure, and environmental controls that are of high quality, cost effective, efficient, and sustainable.<br /><br />Construction firms vary in size from large corporations to small proprietorships and partnerships. These are often classified according to the kind of construction work they do: general contractors, heavy and highway contractors, specialty contractors — including mechanical and electrical — and residential builders and developers. Many firms engage in more than one category of work. Some larger companies incorporate the architectural and engineering design functions as part of their role as a design/build firm. Collectively, constructors manufacture our entire built environment — buildings for housing, commerce and industry, highways, railroads, waterways, airports, power plants, energy distribution systems, military bases and space center complexes. Thus, the construction management field is broad, requiring a unique educational background for its professional practitioners.<br /><br />Although the range of construction activities appears wide and diverse, the general educational requirements for construction management are universal regardless of a particular firm’s area of specialization. Since construction is primarily a business enterprise, the graduate must have a sound background in business management and administration, as well as an understanding of the fundamentals of architecture and engineering as they relate to project design and the actual construction process in the field. Professional expertise lies in the fields of construction science, methods, and management. A working knowledge of structural design, mechanical and electrical systems, methods and materials, soil mechanics, and construction equipment is also essential.<br /><br />The construction management curriculum embraces a course of study in:<br />1. construction project management from pre-design through commissioning;<br />2. project life-cycle and sustainability;<br />3. health and safety, accident prevention, and regulatory compliance;<br />4. law, contract documents administration, and dispute prevention and<br />5. resolution;<br />6. materials, labor and methods of construction;<br />7. finance and accounting principles;<br />8. planning and scheduling;<br />9. cost management including plan reading, quantity take offs and estimating;<br />10. project delivery methods;<br />11. leadership and managing people; and<br />12. business and communication skills.<br /><br />Technical and humanities electives provide a well-rounded education that leads to a rewarding career in the construction industry. Upon graduation, students will be able to demonstrate construction management skills and knowledge with:<br />(a) an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and applied sciences <br />(b) an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data <br />(c) an ability to formulate or design a system, process, or program to meet desired needs <br />(d) an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams <br />(e) an ability to identify and solve applied science problems <br />(f) an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility <br />(g) an ability to communicate effectively <br />(h) the broad education necessary to understand the impact of solutions in a global and societal context <br />(i) a recognition of the need for and an ability to engage in life-long learning <br />(j) a knowledge of contemporary issues <br />(k) an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern scientific and technical tools necessary for professional practice.<br /><br />The long-term program educational objectives are to produce graduates who, as leaders in the field who can:<br />• Develop construction project objectives and plans including delineation of scope, budget, and schedule;<br />• Select project participants and set performance requirements;<br />• Maximize resource efficiency through judicious procurement and management of labor, materials and equipment;<br />• Implement and complete construction activities through coordination and control of scheduling, contracting, estimating and cost control;<br />• Develop effective communication protocols and mechanisms for resolving conflicts associated with the construction process; and<br />• Ensure quality and safety through design, measurement, analysis, and control.<br /><br />Educational standards and criteria for construction education are established by the American Council for Construction Education (ACCE) which is the accrediting agency for construction education programs at all levels. The program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, having met these standards and criteria, is currently fully accredited by ACCE.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must complete 28 semester hours or be classified as a sophomore before applying for admission to the construction management degree program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Requirements for the Degree (City Campus in Lincoln)</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 131 Introduction to the Construction Industry 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 151 Writing &amp; Argument 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOL 101 Physical Geology 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective* 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">*Choose one course from not yet satisified ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 112 Construction Communications 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 153 Elements of Physics Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 14</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems (CONE 221) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 241 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 252 Construction Materials &amp; Testing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 251 Construction Materials &amp; Specifications 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 225 Introduction to Building Information Modeling 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACCT 200 Accounting for Business Decisions 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 242 Construction Equipment &amp; Methods II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 200 Economic Essentials &amp; Issues 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective* 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">*Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 331 Structural Mechanics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 444 Construction Site Safety Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 305 Building Environmental Technical Systems I (ARCH 333) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 378 Construction Estimating (CONE 378) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 332 Structural Optimization 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 306 Building Environmental Technical Systems II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 379 Construction Estimating II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BLAW 300 Business, Government &amp; Society 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">FINA 300 Financial Decision Making 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 476 Project Budgets &amp; Controls (CONE 476) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 420 Professional Practice &amp; Ethics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling &amp; Controls (CONE 485) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MRKT 300 Contemporary Marketing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical/Design Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 480 Productivity &amp; Human Factors in Construction 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 489 Senior Construction Project 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Construction Management Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective* 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">*Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical/Design Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Construction management students must pass all courses offered within the College of Engineering and all math and science courses with a grade of C or higher.</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">The CNST program follows the UNL ACE general education requirements. Because of the specific needs of the program, most of these courses are specified in the curriculum. Please contact Melissa Hoffman at melissa.hoffman@unl.edu or 402-554-4482, if you are interested in more information about this program.</p>
<p class="title-1">American Institute of Constructors’ Level I Exam<br /><br />Senior students enrolled in the Capstone are required to participate in the American Institute of Constructors' Level I examination during their last semester. Students who pass the exam will be reimbursed a majority portion of their exam registration fee.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-2">This minor is for Engineering and Architecture majors ONLY.</p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</p>
<p class="list">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</p>
<p class="list">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an advisor prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</p>
<p class="list">3. The minor must be approved by the advisor, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</p>
<p class="list">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the College of Arts and Sciences in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</p>
<p class="list">5. Minors on either the City Campus in Lincoln or the Scott Campus in Omaha may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</p>
<p class="title-2">Course Requirements</p>
<p class="title-3">Plan A only</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required Courses 27</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BLAW 300 Business, Government &amp; Society 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 112 Construction Communications 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 241 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 305 Building Environmental Technical Systems I (ARCH 333) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 378 Construction Estimating I (CONE 378) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 379 Construction Estimating II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 480 Productivity &amp; Human Factors in Construction 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling &amp; Controls (CONE 485) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations 3</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>